Multithreading in Java

https://www.mygreatlearning.com/blog/multithreading-in-java/#:~:text=In%20Java%2C%20Multithreading%20refers%20to,and%20share%20the%20process%20resources.


Multithreading in Java - An Introduction
    In Java, Multithreading refers to a process of executing two or more threads simultaneously for maximum utilization 
    of the CPU. A thread in Java is a lightweight process requiring fewer resources to create and share the process resources.
    
    Multithreading and Multiprocessing are used for multitasking in Java, but we prefer multithreading over multiprocessing. 
    This is because the threads use a shared memory area which helps to save memory, and also, the content-switching 
    between the threads is a bit faster than the process.
    
    Few more advantages of Multithreading are:
        > Multithreading saves time as you can perform multiple operations together.
        > The threads are independent, so it does not block the user to perform multiple operations at the same time 
            and also, if an exception occurs in a single thread, it does not affect other threads.
    
    
    Life Cycle of a Thread
    There are five states a thread has to go through in its life cycle. This life cycle is controlled by JVM 
    (Java Virtual Machine). These states are:
        1. New
        2. Runnable
        3. Running
        4. Non-Runnable (Blocked)
        5. Terminated
    
    1. New
        In this state, a new thread begins its life cycle. This is also called a born thread. The thread is in the new 
        state if you create an instance of Thread class but before the invocation of the start() method.
    
    2. Runnable
        A thread becomes runnable after a newly born thread is started. In this state, a thread would be executing its task.
    
    3. Running
        When the thread scheduler selects the thread then, that thread would be in a running state.
    
    4. Non-Runnable (Blocked)
        The thread is still alive in this state, but currently, it is not eligible to run.
    
    5. Terminated
        A thread is terminated due to the following reasons:
            > Either its run() method exists normally, i.e., the thread’s code has executed the program.
            > Or due to some unusual errors like segmentation fault or an unhandled exception.
            
        A thread that is in a terminated state does not consume ant cycle of the CPU.